FR #1055: Adding language to provide expected behavior of deprecated columns (#1505)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: guidelines/spec-change-guidelines.md

### Deprecation and Removal of a Feature or Column
    
The FOCUS specification requires that removal actions are preceded with a deprecation notice.

* The feature or item removal is proposed, which must designate the column or metadata as deprecated.
  * If the removal version is not yet determined, the changelog MUST state, "This column will be removed at a future FOCUS version."
  * If the removal version has already been determined, the changelog MUST state, "This column will be removed in version 2.1."
* Prior to removal, the FOCUS specification MUST be updated to include the version that will remove the deprecated column/metadata.

#### Deprecation Retention Period

Once a capability or column is designated as deprecated in a published version of the FOCUS specification:

* It MUST remain in the specification for a minimum of 2 releases (inclusive of the version where the deprecation is announced; e.g., announced in 1.3 and removed in 1.4) before it is eligible for removal.
* Exceptions (e.g., legal, security, or privacy requirements) MAY justify earlier removal; such exceptions MUST be explicitly documented in the changelog with rationale.

> Removal of a deprecated feature or column is classified as:

Reviewer: Is this the right language?  Are we classifying it only once it's been removed?  Or are we classifying it once it's been deprecated, prior to removal?

Author: I've re-written the requirement to reduce ambiguity. Let me know what you think. The expectation is that we're making this classification at the point of deprecation, not at the point of removal.

Reviewer: Looks good!  Resolving.

* Migration Compatible if the same supported feature is fully supported by another feature or column in the specification.
* Incompatible if removal results in the loss of support for a supported feature.

> #### Expected Behavior for Deprecated Capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Expected Behavior for Removed Capabilities
```

#### Deprecation Retention Period
Once a capability or column is designated as deprecated in a published version of the FOCUS specification:

> * It MUST remain in the specification for a minimum of 2 releases (inclusive of the version where the deprecation is announced; e.g., announced in 1.3 and removed in 1.4) before it is eligible for removal.

Reviewer: This line feels strange to me.  

Let's remove the parentheses for a moment:

> It MUST remain in the specification for a minimum of 2 releases before it is eligible for removal.

Then, in the example, the deprecation is carried for one release (1.3), then removed in the next release (1.4).

This either needs to change to be:

> It MUST remain in the specification for a minimum of 1 release before it is eligible for removal.

Or some other option that talks about "minimum of 2 releases" being _inclusive_ of the release that removes it.

Author: I've re-written the requirement to reduce ambiguity, let me know what you think.

Reviewer: Looks good!  Resolving.

* Exceptions (e.g., legal, security, or privacy requirements) MAY justify earlier removal; such exceptions MUST be explicitly documented in the changelog with rationale.

Removal of a deprecated feature or column is classified as:
* Migration Compatible if the same supported feature is fully supported by another feature or column in the specification.
* Incompatible if removal results in the loss of support for a supported feature.

#### Expected Behavior for Deprecated Capabilities

> Providers are expected to remove deprecated capabilities at the same time that the FOCUS specification does. If providers choose to retain a capability (e.g., column) after its been removed from the FOCUS specification, they must explain the rationale in their FOCUS documentation (e.g., conformance gap report). 

Reviewer: This verbiage also needs to be augmented with clarification between "deprecated" and "dropped", per AI #1504.

```suggestion
Data generators are expected to remove dropped capabilities at the same time that the FOCUS specification does. If a data generator chooses to retain a capability (e.g., column) after it has been removed from the FOCUS specification, they must explain the rationale in their FOCUS documentation (e.g., conformance gap report). 
```

### Deprecation

A feature or column from the FOCUS specification is moving to deprecated status, discouraging use and indicating that the same will be removed in a future version.

### Removal

> A feature or column removed from the specification after completing deprecation requirements or with documented exception rationale. The changelog specifies the removal version, deprecation timeline, and compatibility classification.

Reviewer: @Matt-Cowsert @rileyjenk 
I expect this verbiage to be applied and reviewable, either in #1139 or #1494, before we can approve either this PR or #1139.  I am not comfortable with waiting for consistency review to handle this; we are setting an important precedent, and we need time to discuss it ahead of approval.

Reviewer: @rileyjenk to update #1494 to include deprecation information in changelog.

Reviewer: This was done!  Resolving.
